Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., in a 1968 speech
where he reflects upon the civil rights
movement, states, in the end, we will remember
not the words of our enemies,
but the silence of our friends. As a teacher,
I've internalized this message. Every day,
all around us, we see the consequences of
silence manifest themselves in the form of
discrimination, violence, genocide, and war.
In the classroom,
I challenge my students to explore the silences
in their own lives through poetry.
We work together to fill those spaces, to
recognize them, to name them,
to understand that they don't have to be sources
of shame.
In an effort to create a culture within my
classroom where students feel safe sharing the
intimacies of their own silences, I have four
core principles posted on the board that sits in
the front of my class, which every student signs
at the beginning of the year. Read critically.
write consciously, speak clearly, tell your
truth.
I find myself thinking a lot about that last
point, tell your truth.
And I realized that if I was going to ask my
students to speak up,
I was going to have to tell my truth and be honest
with them about the times where I failed to do so.
So I tell them that growing up, as a kid in a
Catholic family in New Orleans, During Lent,
I was always taught that the most meaningful
thing one could do was to give something up,
sacrifice something you typically indulge in
to prove to God you understand His sanctity.
I've given up soda, McDonald's, French fries,
French kisses, and everything in between.
But one year, I gave up speaking, figured the
most valuable thing I could sacrifice was my own
voice, but it was like I hadn't realized that I
had given that up a long time ago.
I spent so much of my life telling people the
things they wanted to hear instead of the things
they needed to, told myself I wasn't meant to be
anyone's conscience because I still had to
figure out being my own, so sometimes, I just
wouldn't say anything,
appeasing ignorance with my silence, unaware
that validation doesn't need words to endorse
its existence. When Christian was beat up for
being gay,
I put my hands in my pocket and walked with my head
down as if I didn't even notice.
Couldn't use my locker for weeks because the
bolt on the lock reminded me of the one I had put on
my lips. When the homeless man on the corner
looked at me with eyes up,
merely searching for an affirmation that he was
worth seeing,
I was more concerned with touching the screen of
my apple than actually feeding him one.
When the woman at the fundraising gala said, I'm
so proud of you.
It must be so hard teaching those poor,
unintelligent kids.
I bit my lip because apparently we needed her
money more than my students needed their
dignity. We spend so much time listening to the
things people are saying that we rarely pay
attention to the things they don't. Silence is
the residue of fear. It is filling your flaws,
gut-rich guillotine, your tongue. It is the air
retreating from your chest because it doesn't
feel safe in your lungs. Silence is Rwandan
genocide. Silence is Katrina.
It is what you hear when there aren't enough body
bags left.
It is the sound after the noose is already tied.
It is charring. It is chains. It is privilege.
It is pain. There is no time to pick your battles
when your battles have already picked you.
I will not let silence wrap itself around my
indecision.
I will tell Christian that he is a lion, a
sanctuary of bravery and brilliance.
I will ask that homeless man what his name is and
how his day was,
because sometimes all people want to be is
human.
I will tell that woman that my students can talk
about transcendentalism like their last name
was Thoreau, and just because you watched one
episode of The Wire doesn't mean you know
anything about my kids, so this year, Instead of
giving something up,
I will live every day as if there were a
microphone tucked under my tongue,
a stage on the underside of my inhibition.
Because who has to have a soapbox when all you've
ever needed is your voice? Thank you.